Add cosign signature verification support (#47)
confidential-containers/image-rs: signature/src/mechanism/cosign/README.md

# Cosign

Cosign is short for Container Signing, Verification and Storage in an OCI registry.
It aims to make signatures invisible infrastructure.
[Cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/blob/main/README.md).

## Policy Format

Cosign is verified due to the container's policy configuration file.

A Policy Requirement of Cosign should be like this

```json
{
    "type": "sigstoreSigned",
    "keyData": "<PUBKEY-DATA-IN-BASE64>",
    "keyPath": "<URL-TO-THE-PUBKEY>",
    "signedIdentity": <JSON-OBJECT>,
},
```

Here, 

> * The `type` field must be `sigstoreSigned`, showing that this image is signed by `cosign`.

Author: Yes, I'll fix it

* The `keyData` field includes the pubkey's content in base64.
* The `keyPath` field indicates the pubkey's URL.
* `signedIdentity` includes a JSON object, refer to [signedIdentity](https://github.com/containers/image/blob/main/docs/containers-policy.json.5.md#sigstoreSigned) for details.
Because of the mechanism of Cosign, only `matchRepository` and `exactRepository`
can be used to accept an image.

> **WARNING**: Must specify either `keyData` or `keyPath`, but not both.

## Implementation

We wrap the [rust implementation](https://github.com/sigstore/sigstore-rs) for sigstore to fit
in our defined interface for a signing scheme.

## Work Flow

Let's quickly see how Cosign works. For example, there's an image
to be signed, named `172.17.0.3:5000/alpine:latest`.
So as a reference, its
* `registry`: `172.17.0.3:5000`, which is a test registry.

> * `repository`: `alpine`

Author: Ok. The original IP, digests I used is real in a local docker repo I set up in a simple experiment. If I change it, the digest can be inaccurate. 

Well, I'll change it for better reading. Hope that nobody will check the digest is accurate :)

* `tag`: `latest`

### Signing

There will be three steps for the signing:

> - Signing the `Payload`

Author: Yes thanks, I'll fix it

- Wrap the `Payload` and signature into an image bundle
- Upload the image bundle to the registry

#### Signature Generate

When we sign this image, we use a cosign-generated key pair.
The digital signature algorithm is by default ECDSA-P256.
The signed object, i.e. `Payload`, is [simple signing payload](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/blob/main/specs/SIGNATURE_SPEC.md#simple-signing).
The reference for the signed image will be included in the `Payload`.

> However, ranther than the full reference, only `registry` and

Author: Thanks for the deep dive!

`repository` are included. `tag` **will not** be included. In this example,
will be like

```json
{
    "critical": {
        "identity": {
            "docker-reference": "172.17.0.3:5000/alpine"
        },
        "image": {
            "docker-manifest-digest": "sha256:9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb"
        },
        "type": "cosign container image signature"
    },
    "optional": null
}
```

Due to this, only `matchRepository` and `exactRepository`
can be used to accept an image in Cosign.

Now, if a client gets the signature and the `Payload`, they
can verify the signature, and then check whether the
`"docker-reference"` in the `Payload` matches the image
to be used.

#### Signature Storage

Now, let's store the signature and the `Payload` in the repository.

There will be a new entry to be stored in the repository.
This new entry includes the signature and the `Payload`.

Due to [OCI Distribution Spec](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/blob/main/spec.md),
an image is stored in the following way in a image registry:
* There must be a `manifest` file to show the components that make up a container image.

> * Each component (e.g., filesystem layers) is stored in a sha256-addressed

Author: Thanks, will fix it

    },
    "layers": [
        {
            "mediaType": "application/vnd.dev.cosign.simplesigning.v1+json",
            "size": 238,
            "digest": "sha256:a252c3b3b26bad13a82cb65b252d5f409ab72d7db433ceb7242ebdbcf0fd9889",
            "annotations": {
                "dev.cosignproject.cosign/signature": "MEUCIQDVshyS+xIpdq5YkAAvrACS5wzg3Zsk4n4UTwcgjiwsnwIgfhy+SeAocHKQVFjX4HgljoAOu27g/p4E2x8izHicbeY="
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

Here, `"dev.cosignproject.cosign/signature"` in `"annotations"` is the base64 encoded
signature for the image using ECDSA P256 algorithm.

The layer `sha256:a252c3b3b26bad13a82cb65b252d5f409ab72d7db433ceb7242ebdbcf0fd9889` in
the blob, is the `Payload`. It is exactly the example `Payload` mentioned before.

```json
{
    "critical": {
        "identity": {
            "docker-reference": "172.17.0.3:5000/alpine"
        },
        "image": {
            "docker-manifest-digest": "sha256:9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb"
        },
        "type": "cosign container image signature"
    },
    "optional": null
}
```

#### store "image" in the registry

> Let's see how the "image" is stored:

Author: Now I do not know it. IMO this case will be handled by the cosign signer rather than the registry. There may be some resident service to monitor this case.

- The image to be signed is `172.17.0.3:5000/alpine:latest`
- Resolve the image reference tag to the digest `sha256:9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb`. Here
the sha256 digest has the same function as a `tag`. They both can be used
to find a specific image. And this sha256 digest is for example, not true.
- Encoding the digest into a new name `sha256-9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb.sig`. The rule is
    - Replace `:` character with a `-`
    - Append the `.sig` suffix

> - Store the "image" in `172.17.0.3:5000/alpine:sha256-9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb.sig`

Author: Yes, you're right. The `latest` example here is not good, because as you've mentioned, the image tagged with `latest` will change. For other tags, the image and its relative sha256 digest will not change.

I'll fix the docs to use a new tag to discuss.

### Verification

When a Policy Requirement with `type` set `sigstoreSigned`, the relative public key will be read
due to `keyPath` or `keyData` field.

Then, follow the steps to verify a Cosign-signed image.
- Download the image's manifest and digest.
- Due to the digest, calculate the the reference for the signature "image".
- Download the signature "image".
- Extract signature and `Payload` from the downloaded signature "image".
- Cryptographically verify the signature and the `Payload`.
- Check the `signedIdentity` rules for the reference in it and the
reference in `Payload`.

> > **WARNING**: Only `matchRepository` and `exactRepository` can be use for Cosign in a `signedIdentity`.

Author: Oh, cool!

# Cosign

Cosign is short for Container Signing, Verification and Storage in an OCI registry.
It aims to make signatures invisible infrastructure.
[Cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/blob/main/README.md).

## Policy Format

Cosign is verified due to the container's policy configuration file.

A Policy Requirement of Cosign should be like this

```json
{
    "type": "sigstoreSigned",
    "keyData": "<PUBKEY-DATA-IN-BASE64>",
    "keyPath": "<URL-TO-THE-PUBKEY>",
    "signedIdentity": <JSON-OBJECT>,
},
```

Here, 
* The `type` field must be `sigstoreSigned`, showing that this image is signed by `cosign`.
* The `keyData` field includes the pubkey's content in base64.
* The `keyPath` field indicates the pubkey's URL.
* `signedIdentity` includes a JSON object, refer to [signedIdentity](https://github.com/containers/image/blob/main/docs/containers-policy.json.5.md#sigstoreSigned) for details.
Because of the mechanism of Cosign, only `matchRepository` and `exactRepository`
can be used to accept an image.

> **WARNING**: Must specify either `keyData` or `keyPath`, and must not both.

Reviewer: You might want to use a block comment to make the warning stand out, as we do for [Kata](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/blob/main/docs/Documentation-Requirements.md#warnings-and-other-admonitions):

```suggestion
> **Warning**: Must specify either `keyData` or `keyPath`, but not both.
```

Which renders as:

> **Warning**: Must specify either `keyData` or `keyPath`, but not both.

Oh nice! GH now sees this as a warning and adds a warning symbol too! :smile:

Author: Ha XD, brilliant!

## Implementation

We wrap the [rust implementation](https://github.com/sigstore/sigstore-rs) for sigstore to fit
in our defined interface for a signing scheme.

## Work Flow

Let's quickly see how Cosign works. For example, there's an image
to be signed, named `172.17.0.3:5000/alpine:latest`.
So as a reference, its
* `registry`: `172.17.0.3:5000`, which is a test registry.
* `repository`: `alpine`

> * `tag`: `latest`

Reviewer: Nice example and explanation!

### Signing

There will be three steps for the signing:
- Signing the `Payload`
- Wrap the `Payload` and signature into an image bundle
- Upload the image bundle to the registry

#### Signature Generate

When we sign this image, we use a cosign-generated key pair.

> The digital signature algorithm is by default ECDSA-P256.

Reviewer: ooi, how would I check that and how would I know if the default had been changed somehow?

Hmm, I've just found this, from https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/blob/main/specs/SIGNATURE_SPEC.md#signature-schemes:

> Implementations must support at least the following schemes:
> 
> - ECDSA-P256
> 
> No information about the signature scheme is included in the object. Clients must determine the signature scheme out-of-band during the verification process.

Why is the signature scheme not included though? Does that imply the verifier needs to attempt to verify against all the schemes it supports. If it fails to verify, it moves to the next scheme, _etc_? I might be missing something obvious, but if this is the way it works, it doesn't sound very efficient.

Author: AFAIK, now cosign only uses `ECDSA-P256` to sign and verify (from the source code), and it does not provide any signature scheme option.

Author: Sure!

The signed object, i.e. `Payload`, is [simple signing payload](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/blob/main/specs/SIGNATURE_SPEC.md#simple-signing).
The reference for the signed image will be included in the `Payload`.
However, ranther than the full reference, only `registry` and
`repository` are included. `tag` **will not** be included. In this example,
will be like

```json
{
    "critical": {
        "identity": {
            "docker-reference": "172.17.0.3:5000/alpine"
        },
        "image": {
            "docker-manifest-digest": "sha256:9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb"
        },
        "type": "cosign container image signature"
    },
    "optional": null
}
```

Due to this, only `matchRepository` and `exactRepository`
can be used to accept an image in Cosign.

> Now, if a client gets the signature and the `Payload`, he/she

Reviewer: Might be easier to read if you just say "they":

```suggestion
Now, if a client gets the signature and the `Payload`, they
```

- Resolve the image reference tag to the digest `sha256:9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb`. Here
the sha256 digest has the same function as a `tag`. They both can be used
to find a specific image. And this sha256 digest is for example, not true.
- Encoding the digest into a new name `sha256-9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb.sig`. The rule is
    - Replace `:` character with a `-`
    - Append the `.sig` suffix
- Store the "image" in `172.17.0.3:5000/alpine:sha256-9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb.sig`

### Verification

When a Policy Requirement with `type` set `sigstoreSigned`, the relative public key will be read
due to `keyPath` or `keyData` field.

Then, follow the steps to verify a Cosign-signed image.
- Download the image's manifest and digest.
- Due to the digest, calculate the the reference for the signature "image".
- Download the signature "image".
- Extract signature and `Payload` from the downloaded signature "image".
- Cryptographically verify the signature and the `Payload`.
- Check the `signedIdentity` rules for the reference in it and the
reference in `Payload`.

> **WARNING**: Only `matchRepository` and `exactRepository` can be use
> for Cosign in a `signedIdentity`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Warning**: Only `matchRepository` and `exactRepository` can be used for Cosign in a `signedIdentity`.
```

# Cosign

Cosign is short for Container Signing, Verification and Storage in an OCI registry.
It aims to make signatures invisible infrastructure.
[Cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/blob/main/README.md).

## Policy Format

Cosign is verified due to the container's policy configuration file.

A Policy Requirement of Cosign should be like this

```json
{
    "type": "signedBy",

>     "scheme": "cosign",

Reviewer 2: Should this document be updated and consistent with the code?

Author: Sorry, forgot to update. Fixed and force pushed

            "docker-manifest-digest": "sha256:9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb"
        },
        "type": "cosign container image signature"
    },
    "optional": null
}
```

#### store "image" in the registry

Let's see how the "image" is stored:
- The image to be signed is `example.com/alpine:latest`
- Resolve the image reference tag to the digest `sha256:9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb`. Here
the sha256 digest has the same function as a `tag`. They both can be used
to find a specific image. And this sha256 digest is for example, not true.
- Encoding the digest into a new name `sha256-9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb.sig`. The rule is
    - Replace `:` character with a `-`
    - Append the `.sig` suffix
- Store the "image" in `example.com/alpine:sha256-9b2a28eb47540823042a2ba401386845089bb7b62a9637d55816132c4c3c36eb.sig`

### Verification

When a Policy Requirement with `type` set `sigstoreSigned`, the relative public key will be read
due to `keyPath` or `keyData` field.

Then, follow the steps to verify a Cosign-signed image.
- Download the image's manifest and digest.

> - Due to the digest, calculate the the reference for the signature "image".

Author: Thanks, fixed it
